# Episode 02 - Igniting Our App

-> What is NPM?
It is package manager. NPM does not have a full form. It manage the packages but it does not stand for Node Package Manager. All the libraries, utilities we need comes from NPM and NPM basically manages that for you.

-> How to add NPM in our project?
-npm init
-jest?

-> What is package.json file?
- package.json is a configuration for NPM. It created a JSON file for us. It is automatically generated when you run npm init command to initialize a new project. You can also manually create and modify this file to manage your project's dependencies and configuration.
It typically contains information about the project such as its name, version, author, and license. It also lists the project's dependencies on other Node.js packages, along with their version numbers, so that these dependencies can be automatically installed when the project is set up or updated.

-> why do we need this package?
- package.json is also known as dependencies. package.json is a configuration file that's essential in web development. It keeps track of a project's dependencies, scripts for common tasks, and important project information. It helps developers work together smoothly, ensures everyone uses the same tools, and simplifies tasks like testing and deployment. It's like a project manager for the code. 

-> Bundler?
-  separate files and assets into a more efficient and       optimized format for web deployment. e.g. Webpack, Vite, Parcel and many more.
- npm install -d parcel
   -d : dev dependency
  *There are two dependencies:-
    1. Dev dependencies:- It is generally required in development phase.
    2. Normal dependencies:- It is also used in production.

-> What is parcel?

-  Parcel is like a helpful assistant for web developers. It takes all the different parts of a website, such as code, styles, and images, and bundles them together neatly, making the website load faster. What's special about Parcel is that it doesn't need a lot of instructions – it figures out what to do on its own, so it's super easy to use. Plus, it has features like a built-in server to see changes instantly as you work, and it makes the final website faster by making the code smaller. So, it's great for anyone, especially if you're just getting started with web development.


-> "parcel": "^2.9.3"? and "parcel": "~2.9.3"?
-> difference between tilde(~) and caret(^) in package.json
- Caret(^) notation: It is used for automatically updating the minor updates.
-Tilde(~) notation: It is used to update the major updates.
- if you don't want to upgrade use without tilde(~) and caret(^). e.g. "parcel":"2.9.3"

*** Always it is safe to put Caret(^) because it's ok to update minor versions but don't upgrade major versions because when we have a major update a lot of things will break in our app.

-> package-lock.json?
-  It keeps tracks of the exact version that is being installed.
- In earlier versions of Node.js, the package.json file did not provide a way to lock down the specific version of each dependency that a project was using. This meant that when a project was deployed or shared with others, there was a risk that different developers or machines would use different versions of the same dependency, which could cause compatibility issues or unexpected behavior.

package-lock.json file is like a one-stop solution of your entire problem. package-lock.json is a file that is automatically generated by npm when a package is installed. It records the exact version of every installed dependency, including its sub-dependencies and their versions.

The purpose of package-lock.json is to ensure that the same dependencies are installed consistently across different environments, such as development and production environments. It also helps to prevent issues with installing different package versions, which can lead to conflicts and errors.

package-lock.json is created by npm when you run the npm install command. It contains a detailed list of all the packages, their dependencies, their specific version numbers, and locations (usually mentioned in the package.json file)

If you are working in a team, it is important to commit package-lock.json to your version control system along with your code so that all team members have the same dependencies installed. When another developer clones the project, they can simply run npm-install to install the same packages and versions specified in the package-lock.json file.

-> Difference between package.json and package-lock.json?
package.json is a file that contains all the relevant information about your project, the dependencies it has installed, and so on.
When someone clones your repo and runs npm install the presence of ^ will cause them to get the latest patched version (whether that be a major or minor patch). Codes which are not in consonance with the latest version will break down.
This is when they released package-lock.json. Now, this file will lock npm dependencies the way they were at the time of making the program. So, even if someone clones your repo and installs this package later, he will get hands on the version that the program was scripted in. Basically, it just ignores tilde and caret functions.

-> Node Modules? 
The "node_modules" folder is a storage location in a Node.js project. It holds external code libraries and tools necessary for the project to function. These libraries are managed by npm or yarn, making it easier to organize and maintain the project's dependencies. Developers typically exclude this folder from version control systems to keep project repositories smaller and avoid redundancy.

-> Transitive Dependencies

-> .gitignore?
A .gitignore file helps Git know what files or folders to ignore, like stuff you don't want in your version control, such as temporary files or personal secrets. It's like telling Git, "Don't pay attention to these things."

-> We can recreate node modules by using command "npm install" that's why it is not required to push node modules on github.

=> NPX
You can build your project by using command 'npx parcel source_file'.
Parcel will basically create a server for you and then our app available on localhost:1234 port.

'npx parcel index.html' 
If we need to install a package we use npm install but npx means executing a package. so 'npx parcel' means we are executing parcel bundler. Parcel is just a beast. Parcel basically goes to the source file(index.html) and build a app and host that development build on localhost:1234 port.

-one way to get react in our app via CDN links and another way is via npm. npm is a javascript package. CDN links is not a preferred way to get react in your app.

Q. Why CDN links is not a preferred way to get react in our app?

-> npm i react-dom or npm install react-dom 
i stands for install

Q. React and ReactDOM

Parcel
- Dev Build
-Local Server
- HMR: Hot Module Replacement?
-File Watching Algorithm - written in C++
-Parcel is also doing caching
- Image optimization
- Minification
- Bundling
- Compress
-Consistent hashing
-Code splitting
- Differential Bundling - support older browsers
- Diagnostic
- Error Handling
- HTTPs
- Tree Shaking - remove unused code
- Different dev and prod bundles

Q. What makes our app fast?
Q. Production Build
- npx parcel build 'source file'
e.g. npx parcel build index.html
But if we run the above command we will get into error, because in package.json file there is "main": "App.js", this tells npm that it is the entry point of our app, but when we use parcel we give entry point like this index.html, so parcel conflicts with this, so remove main from package.json


=> When we build this production ready app , where does this build goes up?
When we do npx parcel build index.html, it will bundle , minify, put on the localhost:1234 and all other stuff and put all those files into the dist folder.

BrowserList: "Browserslist" is a configuration file used in Node.js web development to specify which web browsers and versions your project should support. It's essential for ensuring your web application functions correctly and consistently across different browsers. This configuration is typically found in a standalone file or in the "package.json" file of your project, and it's used by tools like Babel and Autoprefixer to generate code that's compatible with your specified target browsers.

By adding the "browserslist" key with your target browser queries to the "package.json" file, you've configured your project to use these settings for tools like Babel.These tools will generate code that's compatible with the browsers you've specified in the "browserslist" array. 

"browserslist": [
    "> 1%",
    "last 2 chrome versions",
    "last 2 firefox versions",
  ],

source: "https://browserslist.dev/?q=bGFzdCAyIHZlcnNpb25z"



